#### MAVEN
Maven is a project management and comprehension tool that provides developers a complete build lifecycle framework. Development team can automate the project's build infrastructure in almost no time as Maven uses a standard directory layout and a default build lifecycle.In case of multiple development teams environment, Maven can set-up the way to work as per standards in a very short time. As most of the project setups are simple and reusable, Maven makes life of developer easy while creating reports, checks, build and testing automation setups.

#### Maven Evolution
Maven was originally designed to simplify building processes in Jakarta Turbine project. There were several projects and each project contained slightly different ANT build files. JARs were checked into CVS.Apache group then developed Maven which can build multiple projects together, publish projects information, deploy projects, share JARs across several projects and help in collaboration of teams.

#### Features of Maven
Simple project setup that follows best practices.
- Consistent usage across all projects.
- Dependency management including automatic updating.
- A large and growing repository of libraries.
- Extensible, with the ability to easily write plugins in Java or scripting languages.
- Instant access to new features with little or no extra configuration.
- Model-based builds − Maven is able to build any number of projects into predefined output types such as jar, war, metadata.
- Coherent site of project information − Using the same metadata as per the build process, maven is able to generate a website and a PDF including complete documentation.
- Release management and distribution publication − Without additional configuration, maven will integrate with your source control system such as CVS and manages the release of a project.
- Backward Compatibility − You can easily port the multiple modules of a project into Maven 3 from older versions of Maven. It can support the older versions also.
- Automatic parent versioning − No need to specify the parent in the sub module for maintenance.
- Parallel builds − It analyzes the project dependency graph and enables you to build schedule modules in parallel. Using this, you can achieve the performance improvements of 20-50%.
- Better Error and Integrity Reporting − Maven improved error reporting, and it provides you with a link to the Maven wiki page where you will get full description of the error.
- Projects in maven is defined by POM (Project Object Model) pom.xml.

#### Maven Objectives

-  A comprehensive model for projects which is reusable, maintainable, and easier
to comprehend(understand).
- plugins oriented - Maven has so many plugins that i can integrate, i can integrate junit, jmeter, sonarqube,tomcat, cobertura and so many other.

#### Convention over configuration

- Maven uses Convention over Configuration which means developers are not required to create build process themselves. Developers do not have to mention each and every configuration detail. Earlier to maven we had ANT, which was pretty famous before maven.

#### Advantages of Maven

- No script is required for building [automatically generated - pom.xml]
- Dependencies are automatically downloaded
- Project structure is generated by maven
- Documentation for project can be generated
- Maven is called as project management tool also, the reason is earlier when we used
- To create projects and we used to create the directory structure and all by yourself, but now maven will take care of that process.
